Matrices are a special
type of vector in R.
So there's, they're not a spe,
a different, a separate class of objects.
But they're basically
vectors that have a sp,
an attribute called the di,
called the dimension.
And so the dimension attribute is
an integer vector of length two.
Where the first number is
the number of rows the matrix, and
the second number is
the number of columns.
And so, if I can create a matrix empty
matrix with the matrix function, and
I can explicitly say how many rows and
how many columns there are.
This is not the only way to create
a matrix, but it's one way.
And so when I auto print the matrix
by typing the, the object m and
hitting Enter,
you'll see that it'll show me that,
first of all the matrix is full,
is initialized with NA values.
There's no values in here.
And you can see that there's two rows and
three columns and they're labeled
by the numbers in the brackets.
If I call the dim function on m,
it'll give me the dimension attribute,
which in this case it says there
are two rows and three columns,
because the first rows are number rows and
the second number, sorry excuse me.
The first number is the number of rows and
the second number is
the number of columns.
If I call the attributes function on m,
you'll see it
returns a list where the first element is
the dim element and it has the vector 2,3.
So these are all aspects
of a matrix which is
a vector that has
a dimension attribute to it.
Matrices are constructed column wise.
So you can think of the matrix
taking a vector and
all the numbers are inserted
into the matrix by, by column.
So the first column gets filled and then
when you hit the number of maximum number
of rows, then the second column gets
filled and the third column et cetera.
So if I create a matrix by taking
the sequence 1 to 6 and then I say,
I specifies that it has two rows and
three columns.
Well, how does this
matrix get constructed?
So the way,
it gets constructed column wise.
So the first thing it
happens is it takes 1, 2, and
now there's only two rows,
so it can only go to 2.
And then that makes the first column.
The second column is made up of 3, 4.
And then the third column
is made up of 5 and 6.
You can also create a matrix by creating
the dimension attribute on a vector.
So, for example, I can take, I can create
a vector that's a sequence 1 to 10.
And then add the dimension
attribute to it.
So here, I'm using the dim function, but
I'm assigning a value to
the dim attribute of m.
So here I'm assigning the vector 2,5.
So what I'm saying is,
I want to take this vector and
transform it into a matrix that
is two rows and five columns.
And so now after I've done that, I've
got a matrix m, which has two rows and
five columns and
it's filled in the matrix column wise.
Another way to create a matrix, and
this is a common way,
is by binding columns or binding rows.
And so you, this is column, column binding
and row binding can be achieved by the fu,
the functions c-bind and r-bind.
So for example,
suppose I have the two objects x,
which is sequenced from 1 to 3 and y,
which is a sequence from 10 to 12.
If I cbind those two objects,
then I'll get a, I'll get a matrix
where the first column is 1 to 3,
and the second column is 10 to 12.
So this is kind of what you
might expect would happen.
If I rbind those two objects,
then the first row will be 1 to 3, and
the second row will be 10 through 12.
So cbind-ing and rbind--ing is
another way to create a matrix.